Book Review:
My biggest takeaway from Homegoing by Yaa Gyasi is that the trauma of slavery doesn’t end just because slavery ends. This book follows the different paths people in a lineage were forced to take. It revealed how the slavery of the 18th century became the fuel for the mass incarceration of the 20th century, and the inequality still present in the 21st century. This book gave me a new perspective on slavery and the post slavery era as it allowed me to follow a very realistic path of a lineage that would have suffered from slavery. It allowed me to see that just because H was not enslaved doesn’t mean the laws that enslaved him stemmed from the slavery that enslaved his grandmother.

I would rate this book very high mostly because of its intricate writing style in which she is able to truly immerse the reader into the world that each character is living in. This immersion allows the reader to better get an understanding of what African tribal people in this time most likely went through. I would recommend this book to everyone because it opens your eyes to true brutality of the slave trade and more importantly, it changes the macro perspective taught in school to a more individualistic perspective of this ‘trade’.

The dark blue fabric is meant to represent the Atlantic Ocean, the connection between the two lineages that diverged onto different continents. Esi was forced across this ocean in chains and her descendants were forced to navigate a brutal and racist country. The designs on the blue fabric the African Lineage that all of the characters are a part of, even those on a different continent separated by the Atlantic ocean. The Old Lady describes feeling “the spirits of our ancestors calling to me. Some were free, and they spoke to me from the sand, but some others were trapped deep, deep, deep in the water”. This fabric beneath all of the objects remind us that everything is connected by this deep history.


Chain:

The chain is a recurring symbol of bondage in the novel. In Effia’s chapter, Eccoah describes her husband returning from the dungeons of Cape Coast Castle: “He comes to me smelling like feces and rot and looking at me like he has seen a million ghosts.” This image of the dungeon, where enslaved people were chained up and squeezed together, follows the reader throughout the novel. In every generation that follows there is a chain in which they are bound to: James is bound to opium, H is imprisoned, and Sonny is chained to heroin. This chain supports the theme of bondage and oppression because it shows the unbroken line of bondage that each generation of this lineage suffered.



Two black rocks:

The two separated block rocks are meant to symbolize the two halves of the rock given to both Esi and Effi by Maame. When Esi is given the rock by Mamme, she says, “I wanted to give it to you on your wedding day. I left it like this for your sister.” Even though Esi never met her sister this half of a rock symbolized their path in life. Later, Esi is forced to swallow that rock as she is shipped to America as a slave, forever losing her direct connection. Effi is able to keep on the rock and passes it down her lineage, as a way to remember their roots. The rocks are also placed apart from each other to represent that fracture that was restored once Marjorie placed her stone around Marcus’s neck. These rocks served to symbolize the split lineage but how they were still connected despite split across the world.



Dollar bills:

The two dollars serve as a symbol for the profit seeking mindset that led to the slave traders and slave captors justifying their barbaric actions. In Quey’s chapter, Gyasi describes how “trade has increased so much, and the methods of gathering slaves had become so reckless, that many of the tribes had taken to marking their children’s faces so that they would be distinguishable." Tribes became more and more ruthless to one another. In fact, this ruthless nature is what led to Esi’s tribe being raided and her eventually being shipped across the ocean, forever separating the two sisters. It is also why the two rocks are placed across the dollar bills because both lineages were a part of it: one was enslaved and another traded.



Mirror:

The mirror represents the theme of fractured identity and the need to understand one’s history. In Yaw’s chapter, he tells his students, “We believe in the one who has the power. He is the one who gets to write the story. So when you study history, you must always ask yourself: Whose story am I missing?” The mirror is what is asking each character, and the reader, to look into themselves and ask that same question: ‘Whose story am I missing’. Marcus, the final descendent, spends his life trying to answer that question to be able to find out who he is. The book shows how the history of someone leads to the characterization, Quey and Ness had massively different lives and personalities despite only being repeated by two generations.

Leaf

The leaf symbolizes the living world of Ghana and the novel’s metaphor of the family being something rooted and growing. The Akan proverb that preceded the novel was, “The family is like the forest: if you are outside if it is dense; if you are inside you see that each tree has its own position.” Every character in Homegoing is a branch of that connected forest rooted in the same two women, growing in different directions. The leaf is also representative of the setting of Effi's learning in Ghana. It was often described as lush greenery, with dense forests and clear skies. These leaves are meant to show the beauty of Ghana, the homeland of all of these characters.

Water (in the glass):

The water symbolizes both the trauma of the Middle passage and the possibility of return. Marcus, the final descendant, feared the ocean his whole life, “it had made his stomach turn, all that space, that endless blue, reaching out feather more than an eye could hold.” But in the novel’s final scene, he walks in “until the water meets his calves, and then he holds his breath, started to run.” The glass of water symbolizes that journey, from Esi being forced across the ocean to Marcus choosing to enter it. It is the same water that both people interacted with.